#### Contents

* **[What are Logs?](#what-are-logs-why-are-they-so-important)**
* **[Generating Logs](#generating-logs)**
* **[Posting Logs in the Forum and Github](#posting-logs-in-the-forum-and-github)**

--------------------------

## What are logs? Why are they so important?

RetroArch and its underlying libretro technology is designed to run on many different combinations of hardware, operating system, libretro core, and content. It is not possible for a volunteer-based open source project to test all possible combinations.

The answer to this dilemma involves "logs", which RetroArch and other libretro software use to record essential information about your system and its function that other users and volunteers need in order to help troubleshoot problems and improve compatibility with new systems.

--------------------------

## Generating Logs

### Generating Logs in Lakka
[Please see the Troubleshooting Lakka doc](http://www.lakka.tv/doc/Troubleshooting-Lakka/).

### Generating Logs in Linux

#### RetroArch logs
1. Open a terminal.
2. Navigate to the RetroArch folder with the `cd` command.
3. Start retroarch in 'verbose' mode with this command:<br />
 `retroarch --menu --verbose >> retroarch.log 2>&1`
4. Once you exit RetroArch, a file called `retroarch.log` should be stored in your home directory.

#### Graphic card logs
`lspci -nnk | grep -A 3 VGA` will give information about your graphic card.

#### Audio device logs
`aplay -L` enumerates audio devices which have been detected.

#### Input device logs
`lsusb` lists all devices attached via USB

`dmesg` displays all messages from the kernel ring buffer which typically is holding the messages generated by the Linux kernel from the boot process. The dmesg log lists each hardware device that the kernel detected along with information on how the device was configured by the system.

### Generating Logs in Windows


If you **installed** RetroArch:

1. Open the Windows start menu
2. Search and open `RetroArch (log to file)`

Once you exit RetroArch, a file called `retroarch-log.txt` should be stored in the RetroArch folder, in order to retrieve it:

1. Open the windows start menu
2. Search and open `RetroArch Data Folder`
3. Find `retroarch-log.txt`


If you **haven't installed** RetroArch and have a folder with it:

!!! tip
    You can hold `shift` then `right click` on the **folder that contains** retroarch.exe <br />
    Select `Open PowerShell window here`.<br />
    Then jump to step 3.

1. Open a console window with the `cmd` command, found either in the Start Menu or through use of the Windows "Run" menu. 
2. Navigate to the RetroArch folder using the `cd` command.
3. Launch RetroArch with this commandline:<br />
 `.\retroarch.exe --log-file .\retroarch-log.txt -v`
4. Once you exit RetrorArch, a file called `retroarch-log.txt` should be stored in the folder.

!!! note "Log with debug symbols"
    Optionally or if asked, launch RetroArch with debug symbols with this commandline:<br />
    `.\retroarch_debug.exe --log-file .\retroarch-log.txt -v`


### Generating Logs in OS X
1. Open a console window with the OS X "Terminal" app.
2. Navigate to the RetroArch folder using the `cd` command.
3. Launch RetroArch with this commandline:<br />
 `retroarch --menu --verbose --log-file ~/retroarch.log`
4. Once you exit RetroArch, a file called `retroarch.log` should be stored in your home directory.

### Generating Logs in Android
Gathering log files in Android requires a third-party app that can interface with the `logcat` system. Many free apps are available via Android's "Play Store" system.

-------------------------

## Posting Logs in the Forum and Github

Generally, log files are lengthy which make them difficult to read when they're pasted directly into a post on the forums or github. If your log file is more than six or seven lines long, you will be asked to post a link to it instead.

One free and straightforward system for posting and sharing logs is [Github Gist](https://gist.github.com). You can paste the contents of a log file, or the log file itself, into the Gist website. After you log has been added to the Gist, press the `Create Public Gist` button to create a shareable link.
